Now in JavaScript we can work with classes to define blueprints for objects right.
And of course we can use classes in high school as well it supports this feature as well.
And since it compiles code to code that works and older browsers as well.
It even compiles class code down to JavaScript code that does not use classes but constructor functions
and runs in older browsers as well.
Now let's stick to this file and let's say in their maybe at the very top.
But that does not matter.
We want to define a class for a user in our app.
Now this is how we can define a class.
And now in this class we can add a constructor function.
We can expect the name which is of type String and an age which is of type no let's say.
And then here we say this name equals name and this age equals age and now we would have these two properties
here in our class and already we get an error property name does not exist and type user.
Now in vanilla javascript this would be a valid syntax we could use not so in typescript instead there
we have to add property as fields all the time every time we want to work with a property in JavaScript
the field syntax is pretty new and experimental and not supported by all browsers but since typescript
gets compiled down to Charles good code which will work in all browsers types good can enforce certain
features which wouldn't work in browsers otherwise.
And here we have to simply add name and age as fields up there so that we can work with them in here
in the constructor.
Just how to have good works.
It forces us to use this setup because this at the end just leads to cleaner code.
Our developers reading our code can quickly see which fields which properties this user class will have
of course for this simple class.
It wouldn't have been too hard by just looking at the constructor.
But if this is a bigger class with a lot of properties that get added everywhere throughout the class
having a list of properties right at the top can be very readable and very helpful.
So that's how we can find such a class in typescript.
Now in addition typescript also gives us access modifiers we can make it clear whether a property is
intended to be used from only inside the class or also from outside of it.
And there for example we could lock down the h to be used from only inside by adding private.
The opposite is public but you don't need to add this because it's a default anyways so you can edit
but you don't have to.
Now age is really only usable from inside this class.
If I create a user here with new user and I feed in Max and 30 I can console log user dot name but if
I tried to access dot age I get an error.
Now technically javascript of course doesn't really have private properties or at least it's a very
new feature which is not supported everywhere.
So technically once this is compiled to JavaScript this private ness is lost.
It's just a typescript feature so that in your types of code you can't access this and you get an error.
So the developers writing code know OK I shouldn't access this property.
This code is not the code I should write.
That's the idea here.
Using the name is fine because dad is public of course and now there also is a little shortcut in typescript.
We can set up our class like this but I'll copy it here and comment it out because for this common scenario
where you have a couple of fields and then you assign values to them in the constructor you can shorten
this and actually get rid of these fields and instead add the Axis modifiers here in front of the parameters
in the constructor.
And that's simply a special feature available in the constructor of a class.
By doing this you tell typescript these parameters should also be automatically converted to properties
of this class and therefore we can all get rid of these lines.
So this class will do exactly the same thing as this class did simply because of this shorthand types
could supports to you.
This makes it clear the types who should add a name property to this class and the H property and the
value passed and for the name parameter should be stored in the name property the value passed and for
the H parameter should be stored in the H property and the name property will be public.
The H property will be private so the same thing we have up there but a bit easier.
That's a huge advantage.
So this is how we can work with a class here.
Now of course in typescript just as in vanilla javascript we can also inherit we can add a admin class
which extends to user class let's say.
And this now simply allows us to add additional fields for example here in the constructor.
We could also have a private or public whatever you want property named per missions.
And this lets say is an array of strings whatever you want.
And now we just have to call super in here and they offer also accept the name here and H in this case
without using the shortcut because I will forward name and age to the super constructor so if the base
class and also add my own property here does private permissions property which holds an array of strings.
So this is how we can extend the clause how we can still use this shortcut and called Super which we
do have to do if we extend a base clause and bring our own constructor and now we can of course work
with even a dad clause or dad class just the way you are used to from vanilla javascript classes in
the end now kind of related to classes but all different is a typescript exclusive feature called interfaces.
Now when you define a class you have a blueprint for an object right.
And you can always instantiate a class as we're doing it down there.
Now sometimes you just want a blueprint but you don't want to instantiate it because it's very simple
it doesn't have any methods and you just don't want to call new and create a object like this but created
with the curly braces and still have that extra type safety.
Now in such a scenario you can of course use an alias here for example I do store an object in there
but you could also use an interface an interface maybe named calculation calculation container here
you created with the interface keyword then any name of your choice which should start with a capital
character.
Just as for custom types and classes in there you could define how an object should look like.
Did you have a rest property which is a number and then maybe also a print method which returns nothing.
This is how you then define it here you could also use this index if you wanted to but I will go for
the method syntax.
So now this is an interface and we can't use new with it new with calculation
container will not work but we can use it as a type.
For example here we can use the calculation container and have an array of calculation containers and
our other code will work because we define in the air we want to have an object with this structure
and that's exactly what we create down there.
So you can use this as a blueprint for objects which you create with curly braces instead of with the
new keyword.
But like this it's simply just an alternative to the type keyword because this is basically the same
as if we would have said type calculation container equals.
This is also something we could have done.
So why do we have interfaces.
If they're just an alternative to the type keyword well besides using them for object type definitions
you can also use them as contract in classes.
What do you mean by that.
But we can define an interface maybe name it Greta ble where we say we want to have a name which is
of type String and now in our class we can do something which is called implement the interface and
that's a pure typescript feature.
This does not exist in vanilla javascript.
Now what does this do.
It forces does User class to have a public name property which is of type String and if I would remove
this here this parameter property assignment I correctly would get an error that the class User incorrectly
implements the interface readable.
That's why I refer to interfaces also as contracts.
Besides using them as blueprints for objects you can also use them to force classes to have a certain
structure to bring certain properties.
Classes can then always add more than what the interface demands but nevertheless you might wonder why
would you do that.
You are the developer you are writing the code.
Why would you force yourself to build a class in a certain way.
If you want to do that you can just do that.
Well for one keep in mind if you're working in bigger projects it can be hard to keep track of what
you wanted to do where.
Also if you're working in a team it can be helpful to force our developers to do something in a certain
way.
So do you all use the same style and you're working on the same goal.
And here it might get clearer if we maybe create a novel interface printable.
You don't have to name it like this but that's a convention you will often see and there you say that
you want of a print method.
Then you could implement this as well.
You can implement multiple interfaces by simply separating them with a comma.
And now you would be forced to add a print method here which does something we don't know.
We don't know what but it does something.
Now we can make it clear that every class which has a principal interface that implements a printable
interface needs to have a print method and this can give us extra type safety because maybe we got another
part in our code where we are not interested in the exact type of object we're working with we're not
interested in the fact whether it's a user or an admin or a horse.
But we are interested in the fact that we can call print in such a scenario.
We could simply assign to type principal to the parameter or variable that stores our object and it
would be clear that whatever is stored in there we'll have a print method which we can call.
So this is why we can use interfaces as contracts to give us extra types safety and guarantee that certain
classes and deal for new objects built on those classes have a certain structure have certain methods
and it is something you will also see a lot when you are working with typescript.
Now I do want to emphasize that if you compile this file interfaces are totally lost with a lot of code
here because it was compiled to code that doesn't use the class keyword hence we don't see the class
keyword here.
But we won't see the interface here so it this is a pure type good feature which gives us extra type
safety whilst we're working in typescript.